翻译计划
一周完成前言的翻译
从2015.03.27-----2015.04.03

Document source:http://nmap.org/book/preface.html

Introduction
介绍

On September 1, 1997, I released a security scanner named Nmap in the fifty-first issue of Phrack magazine.
1997年9月1日，我在杂志《菲里克》（Phrack）的第五十一期上发表了一个名为nmap的安全扫描器。
My goal was to consolidate the fragmented field of special-purpose port scanners into one powerful and flexible free tool, providing a consistent interface and efficient implementation of all practical port scanning techniques.
我的目标是为了整合各种分散的特殊端口扫描器为一个功能强大且灵活的免费工具，在高效的实现所有实用端口扫描技术的同时提供一个统一的接口。
Nmap then consisted of three files (barely 2,000 lines of code) and supported only the Linux operating system.
后来Nmap包含3个文件（仅仅包含约2000行代码），并只支持Linux操作系统。
It was written for my own purposes, and released in the hope that others would find it useful.
它编写并发表这个软件的目的是希望其他人会发现它很有用。

From these humble beginnings, and through the power of open source development, Nmap grew into the world's most popular network security scanner, with millions of users worldwide.
从这些简陋的初级阶段，通过开放代码开发的力量，Nmap一天天长大，成长为世界上最受欢迎的，拥有数以百万计用户的网络安全扫描器。
Over the years, Nmap has continued to add advanced functionality such as remote OS detection, version/service detection, and the Nmap Scripting Engine.
多年来，nmap添加了诸如远程操作系统检测，版本/服务检测，以及nmap脚本引擎等高级功能。
It now supports all major Unix, Windows, and Mac OS platforms with both console and graphical interfaces.
现在，它支持所有主要的UNIX、Windows和Mac操作系统平台的控制台和图形界面。
Publications including Linux Journal, Info World, LinuxQuestions.Org, and the Codetalker Digest have recognized Nmap as “security tool of the year”.
发表在《linux杂志》、《信息世界》、LinuxQuestions.Org和《码农摘要》等上的文献，让nmap成为了“年度安全工具”。
It was even featured in nine movies, including The Matrix Reloaded, The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, The Bourne Ultimatum, and Die Hard 4.
甚至包括《重装上阵》、《龙纹身的女孩》、《谍影重重》和《虎胆龙威4》等9部电影都有nmap的特写镜头。

Nmap (“Network Mapper”) is a free and open source utility for network exploration and security auditing.
Nmap（网络制图者）是一个为网络探索和安全审计的免费开源工具。
Many systems and network administrators also find it useful for tasks such as network inventory, managing service upgrade schedules, and monitoring host or service uptime. 
很多系统和网络管理员也发现用它来处理网络库存、管理服务更新日程安排和监控主机或者服务运行时间等任务也很有用。
Nmap uses raw IP packets in novel ways to determine what hosts are available on the network, what services (application name and version) those hosts are offering, what operating systems (and OS versions) they are running, what type of packet filters/firewalls are in use, and dozens of other characteristics. 
Nmap利用基于原始IP数据包的新方法来判断网络上那些主机可用、主机上提供了那些服务（应用名和版本）、运行的操作系统（操作系统版本）、在使用那些包过滤器或者防火墙和其他许多特征。
It was designed to rapidly scan large networks, but works fine against single hosts.
它旨在快速扫描大型网络，但对单个主机也工作得也很好。

While Nmap is extremely powerful, it is also complex.
虽然Nmap功能非常强大，它也是很复杂的。
More than 100 command-line options add expressiveness for networking gurus, but can confound novices.
超过100多个命令行选项让网络专家如虎添翼，但迷惑新手。
Some of its options have never even been documented.
其中一些选项甚至都没有被记录在案。
This book documents all Nmap features and, more importantly, teaches the most effective ways of using them.
本书描述了所有的Nmap特性，更重要的是，教你最高效使用它们的方法。
It has taken nearly four years to write, with constant updating as Nmap has evolved.
为了保持与nmap的更新与进化，用了差不多4年来完成本书。

This book is dedicated to the Nmap community of users and developers.
敬以本书奉献给nmap社区的用户和开发人员。
Your passion, ideas, patches, feature requests, flame wars, bug reports, and midnight rants have shaped Nmap into what it is today.
你的激情、想法、补丁、功能请求、激烈争论、报告bug和午夜牢骚让nmap成为今天的样子。
                                    —Gordon “Fyodor” Lyon <fyodor@nmap.org>

Intended Audience and Organization
目标读者和组织

This book documents the free Nmap Security Scanner, from port scanning basics for novices to the types of packet crafting used by advanced hackers.
本书从给新手的基本端口扫描到为高级黑客使用的各种包加工技巧描述了免费的安全扫描器nmap。
It should benefit Nmap users (or potential users) of all experience levels.
它应让所有经验层次的 Nmap 用户 （或潜在的用户）受益。
Starting with the basics, this book gives an overview of Nmap by example in Chapter 1.
从基础开始，本书在第一章通过例子来展示nmap的概貌。
Then Chapter 2 covers obtaining, compiling and installing Nmap.
然后在第二章涵盖如何获取、编译和安装nmap。
Chapters 3 through 5 cover features in the order you might use them when conducting a penetration test.
第三章到第五章是根据在执行渗透测试中可能用到特性的顺序分别进行介绍。
First comes host discovery (“ping scanning”), which determines the available hosts on a network.
首先是确定一个网络上可用主机的主机发现（ping扫描）功能。
首先是主机发现 （"ping 扫描"），确定网络上可用的主机。
Next, port scanning is covered in depth.
紧接着全面描述了端口扫描功能。
In Chapter 5, all the Nmap scanning techniques are detailed, with advice and examples.
第五章中，在描述了nmap所有扫描技术的同时给出建议和例子。
第五章中详细描述了Nmap的所有扫描技术，提供咨询意见和例子。
Scanning a large network can take a long time, so Chapter 6 is full of performance optimization advice.
扫描一个大型网络可以耗费很长时间，所以第六章是完整的性能优化建议。
Chapter 7 details service and application version detection, in which Nmap queries ports to determine exactly what is running rather than simply guessing based on the port number.
在第七章详细描述了服务和应用版本探测功能，其中nmap利用查询端口方式来正确识别，而不是基于端口号简单猜测运行着什么服务。
第七章详细介绍了服务和应用程序版本检测功能，其中 Nmap 查询端口以确定到底是什么正在运行，而不只猜测的基础的端口号。
Chapter 8 covers one of Nmap's most loved features: remote OS detection.
第八章涵盖Nmap用户最喜欢的特性之一：远程操作系统探测。
第八章涵盖 Nmap 用户最爱的特征之一： 远程操作系统识别。
Chapter 9 details the Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE), which allows users to write (and share) simple scripts to automate a wide variety of networking tasks.
第九章详细介绍 nmap的脚本引擎（NSE），从而允许用户编写（和分享）一些简单脚本来自动化完成各种各样的网络任务。
第九章详细介绍 Nmap 脚本引擎 （NSE），从而允许用户写入（和共享）简单的脚本来自动执行各种各样的网络任务。
My favorite chapter is number 10: Detecting and Subverting Firewalls and Intrusion Detection Systems.
我最喜欢的是第十章：防火墙和入侵检测系统的探测和推翻。
For balance, that is followed by a chapter on defending against Nmap scans.
为了平衡，紧接着的一章就是如何防御nmap扫描。
Chapter 12 then fully documents the Zenmap multi-platform Nmap GUI and results viewer.
然后，在第十二章完整描述了zenmap多平台nmap图形用户界面和结果查看器。
The next two chapters cover output formats and data files.
接下来的两章涵盖输出格式和数据文件。
The final four chapters are reference guides for the whole family of tools: Nmap, Ndiff, Ncat, and Nping.
最后的四章是介绍工具大家庭：Nmap、Ndiff、Ncat和Nping的参考指南。
These are quick resources for looking up specific command-line options or brief feature summaries.
这些章节提供了一种快速查询特定命令行选项或者特征简述。
这些是用于查找特定的命令行选项或简要功能摘要的快速资源。

Scattered throughout the book are detailed instructions for performing common tasks such as scanning a network for a certain single open TCP port or detecting wireless access points by scanning from the wired side.
书中随处可见完成常见任务，如通过扫描一个网络中特定开放端口或者通过有线来探测无线接入点的详细指令，。
First each problem is described, then an effective solution is provided.
首先描述了每个问题，然后提供了高效的解决方法。
首先描述了每个问题，然后提供了一个有效的解决方案。

A final discussion section describes the solution in more depth and may provide alternative solutions and insights into similar problems.
最后更深层次讨论描述了解决方法并提供了可选解决方法和类似问题的深刻见解。
最后的讨论部分描述了更深入的解决方案，并可能提供备选解决方案和类似问题的见解。

Conventions
惯例
Nmap output is used throughout this book to demonstrate principles and features.
在本书的展示和特性中nmap的输出贯穿。
整本书中演示原理及特点都用到了Nmap输出。
The output is often edited to cut out lines which are irrelevant to the point being made.
为了展示重点，输出中常常会剪掉不相关的行。
输出通常编辑裁剪与重点无关的行。
The dates/times and version numbers printed by Nmap are generally removed as well, since some readers find them distracting.
由于Nmap打印的日期/时间和版本号会分散读者的注意力，因此通常也会被移除。
Sensitive information such as hostnames, IP addresses, and MAC addresses may be changed or removed.
敏感信息，如主机名、 IP地址和MAC地址可能会更改或删除。
Other information may be cut or lines wrapped so that they fit on a printed page.
为了合适的打印版面，其他的信息可能会被剪切或折行。
Similar editing is done for the output of other applications.
类似的编辑也会用在其他应用的输出中。

Example 1 gives a glimpse at Nmap's capabilities while also demonstrating output formatting.
示例1在一瞥Nmap功能的同时也显示出输出格式。

Example 1. A typical Nmap scan

示例1  一个典型的nmap扫描

表1 格式风格惯例
Token type	Example
Literal string	I get much more excited by ports in the open state than those reported as closed or filtered.
Command-line options	One of the coolest, yet least understood Nmap options is --packet-trace.
命令行选项
Filenames	Follow the -iL option with the input filename such as C:\net\dhcp-leases.txt or /home/h4x/hosts-to-pwn.lst.
文件名
Emphasis	Using Nmap from your work or school computer to attack banks and military targets is a bad idea.
Application commands	Trinity scanned the Matrix with the command nmap -v -sS -O 10.2.2.2.
应用命令
Replaceable variables	Let <source> be the machine running Nmap and <target> be microsoft.com.
可替换变量 
其他资源

While this book is an important reference for Nmap, it isn't the only one.
虽然本书作为nmap的重要参考，它并不是唯一一个。
The Nmap web page at http://nmap.org is not just for downloads.
在http://nmap.org上的nmap网站不只为了下载功能。
It also provides substantial documentation from Nmap developers and third parties.
它同时也提供了来自nmap的开发人员和第三方提供的丰富文档。
For example, you can find the Nmap Reference Guide translated into a dozen languages there.
比如，在那里你会发现《nmap参考指南》已经翻译成多种语言。
Other books, videos, and articles covering Nmap are also available.
还提供了其他涵盖nmap的书籍、视频和文章。

The official web site for this book is http://nmap.org/book/.
本书的官网地址为http://nmap.org/book/。
Go there for errata, updates, and many sample chapters.
这里有勘误、更新和很多示例章节。
Any serious Nmap user should subscribe to the nmap-hackers mailing list for announcements about Nmap and Insecure.Org.
任何认真的Nmap用户都应该在nmap-hackers上订阅关于Nmap和insecure.org公告的邮寄列表，
Traffic is very light (about six posts per year) because it is reserved for only the most important announcements.
由于只保留最重要的公告，所以流量很小（每年大概6封邮件的样子）
Developers and particularly devoted users can also subscribe to the nmap-dev mailing list.
开发人员和特别忠实的用户也可以订阅nmap-dev的邮寄列表。
Traffic is much higher (hundreds of posts per month), but it is a great place to learn about and try new features before they are released and to pick up tips from advanced users.
这个的流量就大的多了（每个月有上百封的邮件），但这是一个了解和尝试发布前的新特性和从高级用户那里获得小窍门的好地方。
Subscription information and archives for both lists are available at http://seclists.org.
在http://seclists.org上提供了上面两个预定信息列表和档案。
While Nmap can be useful, it won't solve all of your security problems.
虽然nmap很有用，但它并不能解决你所有的安全问题。
Every few years I do a survey of thousands of Nmap users to determine what other tools they like.
每隔一些年，为了了解他们喜欢什么工具，我都会对成千的nmap用户做调查。
The list is posted at http://sectools.org, which has become one of my most popular web sites.
在http://sectools.org上列出的清单，成为最受我欢迎我的网站之一。
Read through the list and you are sure to find many gems you had never even heard of.
通读这个清单，你会发现很多你甚至从未听过的珍宝。
Most of the tools are free and open source.
它们中的大部分是免费开放源代码工具。

Request for Comments
征求意见

While I tried my best to make this book comprehensive, accurate, and up-to-date, we all make mistakes.
虽然我尽力让这本书全面、 准确并与时俱进，但我们都会犯错误。
If you find any problems or just have suggestions for making this book better, please let me know by email at <fyodor@nmap.org>.
如果你发现任何问题或者只有使得本书更好的建议，请通过邮件<fyodor@nmap.org>让我知道。
The open source principle of many readers and contributors is just as viable for documentation as for software.
开放源代码的原则是读者和贡献者都能够与获得软件一样获得相应的文档。
As the next section attests, dozens of people have already generously contributed their time and skills to make this book a success.
正如下一节证明的那样，很多人在使得本书成功时作出了时间和技术上的慷慨贡献。
If you have a question or comment about Nmap (rather than this book itself), it is best sent to the Nmap development list as described at the section called “Bugs”.
如果你有关于Nmap（而不是这本书本身）的问题或者评论，最好能够根据“Bugs”一节中所述给nmap的开发清单发送邮件。

Acknowledgements
致谢
When I first floated the idea of writing an Nmap book to the nmap-hackers mailing list, I was inundated with suggestions and offers to help.
在我首次浮现给nmap-hackers邮件清单写一本Nmap的书时，我得到了应接不暇的建议和帮助
This outpouring of enthusiasm convinced me to proceed.
倾泻而至的热情说服我我继续。

My complete naivety about how much work was involved also contributed to my decision.
!!!  幼稚的评估所涉及的工作量也促成了我的决定。
It has been quite an undertaking, but what kept me going chapter by chapter was a private review group called the nmap-writers.
!!!  这已经是一个承诺，让我保持一章接一章前进的动力就是被称为Nmap作者私人评审小组。
They provided invaluable feedback, advice, and detailed review notes throughout the process.
在整个过程中他们提供了宝贵的反馈、建议和详细的复审笔记。
In particular, I would like to thank the following people:
我要特别感谢以下人员：
David Fifield is listed first (everyone else is alphabetical) because he was a tremendous help during the book writing process.
首先要说到David Fifield（其他人都是按字母顺序排列），因为他在本书在写作过程中提供了极大的帮助
He solved a number of technical DocBook problems, created many of the final illustrations from my terrible drafts, dramatically improved the index, helped with proofreading, and even wrote Chapter 12, Zenmap GUI Users' Guide.
他解决了很多DocBook的技术问题，从很多糟糕的收图中创作了最终插图，大大改进了索引，帮助校验，甚至写了第十二章，zenmap图形用户界面用户指南，
Matt Baxter allowed the use of his beautiful TCP/IP header diagrams (in the section called “TCP/IP Reference”).
Matt Baxter允许使用他漂亮的TCP/IP报头的图表（在“TCP/IP参考”一节）。
Several other diagrams in this book were done in that style to match.
书中其他的图都是匹配这种风格来完成的。
Saurabh Bhasin contributed detailed feedback on a regular basis.
Saurabh Bhasin 定期贡献反馈的细节。
Mark Brewis could always be counted on for good advice.
总能指望Mark Brewis提供好的建议。
Ellen Colombo was a big help from the beginning.
Ellen Colombo从一开始就提供了很大的帮助。
Patrick Donnelly helped improve Chapter 9, Nmap Scripting Engine.
Patrick Donnelly帮忙改善第九章，nmap脚本引擎。
Brandon Enright printed out the whole book and reviewed it chapter by chapter.
Brandon Enright打印出整本书，并逐章复审。
Brian Hatch has always been a big help.
Brian Hatch一直提供很大的帮助。
Loren Heal was a continual source of ideas.
Loren Heal提供源源不断的主意。
Lee “MadHat” Heath wrote the section called “MadHat in Wonderland” and also an early version of the section called “Grepable Output (-oG)”.
Lee “MadHat” Heath写了名为“MadHat 梦游仙境”的一节，并写作了名为“Grepable Output (-oG)”一节的早期版本。
Dan Henage provided advice and proofread numerous chapters.
Dan Henage 提供咨询，对许多章节都做了校对工作。
Tor Houghton reviewed every chapter, probably giving me more feedback than anyone else.
Tor Houghton复审了每一章，并给我提供了比别人更多的反馈。
Doug Hoyte documented the many Nmap features he added, and also handled most of the book indexing.
Doug Hoyte描述了很多他填加的nmap特性，同时也处理了书中大部分的索引。
Marius Huse Jacobsen reviewed many chapters, providing detailed feedback.
Marius Huse Jacobsen审查许多章节，并提供详细的反馈意见。。
Kris Katterjohn performed thorough reviews of several chapters.
Kris Katterjohn对几个章节都做了彻底的复审工作。
Eric Krosnes sent useful technical review feedback and also regularly nagged me about book progress.
Eric Krosnes在发给我有用技术复审的的同时，还经常唠叨我关于书的进展。
Eric Krosnes 发送有用的技术审查反馈，并且还经常唠叨我关于书的进展。
This was helpful since I didn't have a traditional editor to do so.
这对于我没有传统的编辑器来说很有帮助。
Vlad Alexa Mancini created the Nmap eye logo for the cover (and the Nmap web site).
Vlad Alexa Mancini创建了封图(也是nmap网站上)的nmap之眼标志。
Michael Naef kindly reviewed many chapters.
Michael Naef友好的复审了许多章节。
Michael Naef请审查了许多章节。
Bill Pollock of No Starch Press was always happy to provide advice and answer book publishing questions based on his decades of experience.
No Starch Press出版社的Bill Pollock总是乐于提供建议并基于他们几个世代的经验回答关于出版的问题。
David Pybus was one of the most frequent contributors of ideas and proofreading.
David Pybus是贡献主意和校对最频繁的人之一。
Tyler Reguly helped by reviewing multiple chapters just when it was most needed.
Tyler Reguly在最需要的时候复审多个章节。
Chuck Sterling provided both high level advice and detailed proofreading of several chapters.
Chuck Sterling对多个章节提供了详细的校验工作和高水平的建议。
Anders Thulin provided detailed reviews of many chapters.
Anders Thulin 提供了很多章节的详细审查。
Bennett Todd sent dozens of suggestions.
Bennett Todd发给我很多的建议。
Diman Todorov wrote an initial draft of Chapter 9, Nmap Scripting Engine.
Diman Todorov写了第九章的初稿，nmap脚本引擎。
Catherine Tornabene read many chapters and sent extremely detailed feedback.
Catherine Tornabene读了很多章节，并提供了极其详细的反馈意见。

Technology Used to Create This Book
创作本书用到的技术

As an author of open source tools myself, I'm a big believer in their power and capability.
身为开源工具作者，我对他们的力量和能力坚信不疑。
So I made an effort to use them wherever possible in creating this book.
所以我尝试让任何地方利用他们来创作本书。
所以努力创造这本书时，我尽可能使用他们。
I wasn't about to write it in Microsoft Word and then handle layout with Adobe FrameMaker!
我可不想写在Microsoft Word中，然后再用Adobe framemaker来处理布局。
Nmap Network Scanning was written with the GNU Emacs text editor in the DocBook XML format.
nmap网络扫描用gnu emacs文本编辑器用docbookxml格式编写。
Nmap 网络扫描是用 GNU Emacs 文本编辑器 DocBook XML 格式的。
The free online chapters are created from the XML using Norman Walsh's XSL Stylesheets and the xsltproc XSL processor.
在线免费章有xml
免费在线章节是使用诺曼·沃尔什的XSL样式表和xsltproc XSL处理器由xml创建的。
The print version also uses Norman's stylesheets and xsltproc, but output to the XSL-FO format.
打印版同样使用和，但输出为XSL-FO格式。
印刷版还使用了诺曼的样式表和 xsltproc，但输出为 XSL-FO 格式。
An XSL-FO processor is then used to build a PDF.
然后用XSL-FO创建PDF文档。
I would like to use Apache FOP for this, but a footnote-related bug prevents this, so I switched to the RenderX XEP Engine.
XEP is proprietary, but at least it runs on Linux.
我想用Apache FOP来完成这些，但脚注相关的问题让这行不通，所以我调整使用RenderX XEP引擎。
I hope to switch back to FOP after the footnote bug is fixed.
我希望在脚注问题解决后能换换回到FOP。
Cover layout was done with Scribus and (due to printing company format requirements) Adobe InDesign.
封面布局使用Scribus和Adobe InDesign（由于印刷公司格式要求）完成。
Raster graphics for the cover and internal illustrations were created with The Gimp, while Inkscape was used for vector graphics.
封面位图和书中插图用Gimp完成，而向量图则用Inkscape完成。
Subversion was used for revision control and the free web chapters are serviced by Apache httpd.
我们用Subversion来控制版本，免费的章节由apache httd给大家提供服务。

TCP/IP参考
TCP/IP Reference

This book assumes basic familiarity with TCP/IP and networking concepts.
本书假设你对TCP/IP和网络概念基本熟悉。
本书假定您基本熟悉 TCP/IP 和网络概念。
You won't find a primer on the OSI seven-layer model or a rundown of the Berkeley Socket API within these pages.
本书没有关于OSI七层模型或者Berkeley套接字API的相关章节。
For a comprehensive guide to TCP/IP, I recommend “The TCP/IP Guide” by Charles Kozierok or the old classic “TCP/IP Illustrated, Volume I” by W. Richard Stevens.
对于TCP/IP 的综合指南，建议参考Charles Kozierok的《The TCP/IP Guide》或者W. Richard Stevens写的老经典的《TCP/IP Illustrated》（卷1）。
While TCP/IP familiarity is expected, even the best of us occasionally forget byte offsets for packet header fields and flags.
虽然期望对TCP/IP熟悉，但即使是我们中最优秀的人偶尔也会忘了数据包头中各域和标志的字节偏移量。
This section provides quick reference diagrams and field descriptions for the IPv4, TCP, UDP, and ICMP protocols.
本节提供了IPv4、TCP、UDP和ICMP等协议的快速参考图和各域的描述。
These beautiful diagrams from http://www.visi.com/~mjb/Drawings are used by permission of author Matt Baxter.
得到其作者Matt Baxter的同意后我们才使用这些来自http://www.visi.com/~mjb/Drawings漂亮的图，。

Figure 1. IPv4 header
图1 IPv4头


Figure 2. TCP header
图2 TCP头

Figure 3. UDP header
图3 UDP头

Figure 4. ICMP header
图2 ICMP头
